welcome everyone this
is the ipod sync meeting
it's in november the 23rd 2020
and as every week we go over the staff
that we've
worked on on the past week and then
discuss any
open items we might have and yeah i
start with myself
i actually can't recall what i've worked
on last week it must have been more but
i can't
can only recall that my biggest
successes are that
finally the prs emerged so lib p2p is
now using the lightest rust multi-hash
and forest the rust fico implementation
is using the latest rust martial and
rust cid
and so the good news is the so there
isn't
so if i talk to the people from forest
that um
the performance like they couldn't
really measure a difference
but they could at least measure that is
so the quote is
strictly better performance so it's
certainly
not worse it's definitely better but
it's probably not measurable but still
there
no regression there so that's great um
good to know um and probably also like
the only p2p folks would have said
something if there would be a regression
so it's good um yeah
that's pretty much it um
next on my list is danielle
cool so last week um
i basically finished the multi-codec
library the week before but
this is just an fyi that i plan on
tagging the first
post rewrite release tomorrow so if
anybody has any last feedback please
speak now and i did polish up the names
a little bit
um last monday so now the names are a
little bit more idiomatic go
and the code generator is also smaller
which isn't nice
i also spoke to rod about um well
this is coming from what michael said
the week before which is it would be
nice if the
hammed adl also supported the file coin
hand because we've got
a lot of data in that format so i spoke
to rod about
like exactly what are the differences
between the two schemas
and how important it is to support the
old one versus the new one
because supporting the old one is useful
today because we've got a lot of data in
that
um so the actual difference is only in
the element type because the new one is
kind and the old one is keyed
i think i got that right um so michael
actually came up with an idea
to just make like a double union he
called it uh so there's an agenda
item about this later so we can take a
look at that and i also spoke to will
about
potentially using this instead of the
file coin hand
um idl in his stuff because right now i
believe he uses
that with an ipld prime node wrapper
which is like read-only for doing things
like selectors and stuff
so i think i'm pretty close because i've
got most of the stuff i need to read
existing notes i'm just missing
because the prototype is there and a
bunch of stuff is there i think i'm just
missing
refi and maybe some other bits like
caching of link loading
but most things should be there i think
um i also gave a talk about ghost build
cache which went pretty well there's a
video up if anybody wants to watch that
and i'm giving a talk tomorrow about
init time in a time tracing in go 116
which is pretty niche but if anybody has
super large
go binaries that take a long time to
start those are all the unit functions
doing work and with 116 you can actually
measure how long they take
per package which is really nice and the
last thing
it's something that's been going on for
a bunch of months i've brought it up
i think once or twice before but we're
kind of
redesigning the encoding json package
into like a version two but
um it's not public yet because we don't
know if it's gonna be a version two
maybe the experiment
is gonna fail horribly it probably will
um but i can share some details later if
anybody's interested
and that's it for me
thanks and this actually reminded me
what i did last week i was speaking at a
virtual meetup and i prepared
almost all week the talk that was it
and there will be a recording so there's
no recording now but there will be
recording published
sometime yeah so and next on my list is
the rod
a similar week vodka
it's been a lot of the week actually on
um slides for
michael's chunking tree presentation
um which i don't think and i think most
of you probably haven't seen but
i think because i've spent some time
trying to understand the algorithm
and then figuring out how to explain it
in a way that
would help me if i was just looking at
slides to understand it
so i think that slides are pretty good
at getting to the core of the algorithm
and uh and so they they're probably
um uh worth sharing at some point
um so i think there's there's just
there's still just a little bit of
a little bit of the uh the security case
like the um collision case that needs to
be sorted out that's that's really a
fundamental problem that needs to be
needs to have a solid solution before we
uh can
trumpet this thing loud and wide um
and that continues to bother me uh and i
know michael thinks
he's got solutions for that but um we'll
talk about that in one on one i think
michael
um you know that's that actually took up
a couple of days
to do that um i've been messing around
with
uh with rivers s3 data file coin data
uh i made a a local block store
that could store it efficiently enough
uh just using car files and level db for
indexing
um i know and michael's working on a
block store as well so we've got
multiple block storage things going on
and
will's got car indexing stuff so there's
lots of
lots of block store stuff happening here
at the moment so lots of interesting
things
but i'm hitting all the problems
associated with
um traversing very large graphs um
and that's you know so i
anyway i i don't want to get stuck too
much in this stuff but i
really would like to um
have easier access to this data and then
spend a little bit of time on clarifying
terminology around
the farcoid genesis block which is a bit
of a mess
but i think i've got a final form in a
pr that i'll merge today
in the specs repo just because there's
there's a genesis and then there's a
genesis in falcoin
and um and these two things need to be
described
in our docs because one's different to
the other and so
trying to extrapolate from
lotus code how people think and talk
about this thing
didn't go as well as i hoped and it
required some
intervention from various people to
clarify the issues around it
anyway i i think the the pr
is good enough as it is to clarify that
language
and the situation so that's all i'll say
about that
that's really all the notable things for
me this last week
i can remember the next one as well
sure um so the
[Music]
graphql thing on top of filecoin is
up on a public address and running and
people are using it which means there's
bugs and feature requests and so forth
there's a couple places where i'm
continuing to tweak things
one of the interesting ones is the
natural
like base type that graphql exposes as a
scalar is called id
and it is very natural for us to say our
cids are that
id type but since that is a built-in
graphql type that means you do not get
to easily override
anything about that type because it's
built into the graphql library
and for instance that means you can't
then define how to pretty print
cids in their stream form while holding
them in their byte form
right so we have our ids and actually a
sort of non-standard type
and so we would like to think of this as
that core graphql type
of a id scalar in some sense but also we
have some custom rules so
that's that's one place where uh yeah
we're gonna have to
figure out a path
it is doing a sort of icky partial
loading of pants
which helps speed quite a bit
there's a couple pr's in go ipld prime
one that was minor that's merged another
one that's
uh has the code generation look at the
destination package that it is
generating code into and skipping
a generation of types if they're already
defined in that destination package
somewhere not in auto generated code as
a way to
just let you take a type and define it
with some weird custom things and
not have and then also coach and the
other things that aren't there
um there's probably a way to cogen
to like expose some sort of methods that
you can put in as your overrides that is
narrower and more tailored to
the sorts of things that actually make
sense and i have not figured out how to
do that yet um
the other
interesting thing of note to this group
maybe is i added another
cache that seems to be pretty effective
at
uh the speed and that is a realized
object cache
so this graphql server keeps a
in memory thing of cid to ipld.node
of the parsed things so rather than
going back to the data store it reuses
those nodes that it has parsed and
realized
and that seems quite useful and a layer
that we should have a cache for
um that
is quite simple right like that's just
you you do an lru or an emt or do you
make some cash when you do it
the only place where it was
annoying because of my other hacks
that i've been doing because lotus
on its state routes uh sometimes
until the upgrade uh of v2 actors
it didn't have a layer of indirection at
stake roots
so it just directly the state group
pointed to the hampt of actors instead
of this
now defined state route object which is
a sid of the hampton factors and a
version
id and the way that i
unified that previously is if i failed
to parse it as the
struct that had the hampton actors and
the version id i made one up
saying it was version zero and then put
the same sid as the hampton of actors
because it was a hampton of actors
but now that means there's two ipld
nodes with the same cid
in that case uh so i am keying on
both the cid and the type of the ipld
node
because i do know what that type is
going to be um so my keys are
uglier than they need to be ideally and
that's
sort of my fault and my misuse of cds in
some sense and i'm sure
people will feel strongly and
happy at me for that choice but that's
where we are um
i have a quick question because you
wrote ipldql
is this the actual name or
i have sometimes called it that yes
because that that was my
goal for what the uh so so stateql is
like the file coin applied version but
the generic code gen of an ip
of a graphql server over ipld data uh
right because there's sort of two layers
here there's the one that's totally
generic to an ipld tag and then there's
or schema and then there's the one that
is the filecoin specific binary
server thing so i would be super happy
if we would
keep it dql for in case we come up with
a query language or something
and okay yeah i don't know like ipld
doesn't exactly roll off the tongue but
like it's
like it might be just me like if others
like
like yeah i think it would make sense to
shove a g
in there or something too yeah sure
but yeah so just having worked on query
languages
it actually is easier to say with the g
yeah like that d to q
is like a weird transition for my tongue
tonight
yeah okay s and sorry i
totally uh who's next eric is next
so that yeah sorry i'm still trying to
not laugh at the pronunciation of them
so um there is a recording from last
week
uh i was also in the ranks of people
giving talks
and so there's a what's new and ipld
talk that was recorded as part of the
ipfs meetup last week and there is a
link to where that exists on youtube
um my section is like only 10 minutes of
that so if you want a really
brief overview of what's up and what's
new
it's about as brief as it gets
there's a lot of other stuff in that
video but i made a link there with the
time offset too
in go i feel the prime code uh there are
a couple of small things merged for
example the cogen output rearrangement
so
finally cogen will output a finite
number of files
instead of a file for every type which
was operationally
annoying so fixed um
i was doing some discussions with will
as he already mentioned about how we
might
integrate adl stuff in practice
and i think it seems like we're probably
going to do
some present tense shortcuts which
are aimed towards letting people do
arbitrary weird stuff
and then that'll let will do what he
wants and then there'll be
a rather distinct roadmap for like how
we want to integrate adls
well in the long term and that's going
to be a little we're going to take that
one slower
the present tense shortcut is probably
going to be something that's unique to
cogen and just like really let's
it will assume that a human is very much
in the loop so it's going to be
uh it'll be safety's off sort of
scenario
um and we'll see how that goes and other
than that a lot of this week seemed to
disappear for me too
um working on a lot of planning and
scoping docs
and just plain thoughts for the future
so
more docs about that will probably come
out later
and that's about it this week
thanks next one is peter
yes uh so a lot of glue work again this
week
uh stuff that is interesting for ipld
aside for you know
falcon plus dumbo drop space series 2
uh started something interesting um
we hooked up uh
will's front ends to
not yet complete and somewhat unstable
uh version of an sql-based data store
that has like
everything in it including state and
clinic receipts
uh well supposedly everything
and it is currently served a lot of
people already using it
and speaking of naming i like to call
this graphil ql
uh because it rolls over the tank very
nicely
uh and uh yeah that that
that was interesting to get uh to get
running on a very short notice because
the team really needed that um
another thing that was done a lot was
moving around various uh versions of the
data store for for uh various purposes
um solidifying a little bit more
what actually needs to happen for this
to be um
you know available at least for our ipld
needs going forward uh and i
hope by next week i'll be able to
talk about this more more in detail but
for now everything is still
uh very much in the air and it's just
it's just really
uh really difficult to navigate through
all of this when
everything you try uh takes like an hour
and a half
so yeah but welcome to big chain
um and yeah that's uh pretty much all i
have this week
thanks next one is michael
hey yo so yeah i had some more
calibration stuff last week and then
more um doing 2021 planning still
got to get that ready this week um and
then
yeah i did a bunch more work on cadb got
it working and benchmarking
it looks great it's really fast uh
code's a mess though um i just like
hadn't really implemented these trees
much and then yeah just things got like
wildly out of hand
and so it's working really well but
there are some bugs and
hunting them down has just been so
painful with the way that it's written
um so i'm looking at as i was looking at
kind of like
breaking it apart and putting some
better kind of abstract layers in there
i realized that there's just a much more
abstract version of these trees that i
could implement
and then use that implementation of
those trees to do this database or any
other data structures so i started
poking at that a little bit
seeing what that's like um the caching
layer we're talking about was funny
i have one of these catching layers
already um in cadb
and then now i'm porting it over to this
other one and the funny thing about it
is like um
i'm actually making the addresses of the
nodes sort of
abstract because in cadb those those are
just integers for the file offset
um and uh and then like in the other
merkle structures like they're obviously
going to be cids um
so i just wanted to make that a little
bit flexible but yeah it's like you want
to make any of this stuff fast you don't
need a node cache where like the fully
materialized node is already there
um yeah and then that's uh that's most
of what
i got done thanks
next one is chris all right just
continue work on
dia's graph sync request validation
thanks all right so today we have agenda
items
starting with the first one
from whoever i think is from danielle i
guess
well that's michael's pull request i
don't know if you want to talk about it
yeah i i don't know how well this sort
of double union thing works i'm actually
looking to eric and rod
tell me if that's reasonable or not um
should work i mean theoretically it
should work um
yeah um but yeah it also wrought it it
includes that change that we had talked
about a little bit that just
um makes the the root hemp reference a
link
um instead of being in line
you're muted i can't hear you
just looking this is a pull request
against the specs repo is it
yeah yeah it should be the latest repo
latest one
um it's it's an incomplete pr in that if
you did want to merge this we'd want to
change the
file code section at the bottom but i
just really wanted to talk about the
schema change
but this should allow us to to have both
to to support both hands
i mean why is this a theoretical
question
can don't don't we have enough tooling
to just try
that already to just see what's going to
happen
probably
the thing that i see is interesting
about this
is the semantics that come out of this
is that you would be able to intermingle
both structures
in the same tree and i don't know if
that is
desirable or intentional
well the implementation wouldn't really
allow mixing them it's just that
well at least from my use case there
would be an api entry point that says
use the old stuff another one that says
use new stuff
and then depending on that i follow one
path or the other does that make sense
but loading them it would i think one of
the exciting is if you look you could
then
load that mixed crazy data then i reject
it later
do you have i mean when you insert that
point to when you instantiate
it you can say what type it needs to be
in
it's just shifting a bunch of checks
from being done for you by the schemas
to you have to do them in your
application level logic for this which
is
always something that you can do it's
just
should questions yeah it moves
one check i think
i i so here's the thing i this is
fine except it'd be nice not to do that
in the
formal spec like maybe this could be
something that could be
here's how you can combine both of them
you know why not both thing
um because that
you know the the key union is so
horrible like
i don't really want to bake the key
union into our ideal spec
because of miscommunications and
accidents
like nobody wants it i don't think it
but yeah so ideal
so i mean the reason this came up is
just that we could have a schema
that daniel could use for cogen and
implement both in one
and so i think that it does get us there
um
i would like to take
yeah i would like to take the um
linking the root node change i don't
know how you feel about that rod
um i i'm not that keen on it but it does
you know i don't know it's it's fine
it's
you hate these i hate these tiny blocks
like that's a tiny block
yeah but you you only have to create it
when you want to reference
um somebody no you have
you have to create a new one every
mutation so you've got the two
two nodes that the root need to change
in every mutation yeah
yeah i mean that's not the that's not
the most annoying tiniest lock that you
i create like
[Laughter]
um but um
i don't know what was it gonna say um oh
yeah so maybe
like this could move down to the bottom
and we could basically
have a schema for the unified thing at
the bottom instead of just like
the one off for file coin if we're going
to use this to
yeah although that particular change of
linking from the root
yeah that would mean unified one and
unless
unless we make that a union you make
that a union for
a kind of union for a link or a
could do that yeah we could put we could
put that in the main spec the kind of
union
yeah that makes sense um
yeah you should be able to invite it
that seems reasonable
i know this question of of um
linking to the root node and
keeping your configuration out into the
an external thing i'm not totally sold
on that
except in the case where the root node
is interchangeable with other nodes of
the graph like in the
in the vector spec you can you can pull
out other any any arbitrary node and
make it the root node
uh and that's a nice pattern where you
could if you had your configuration that
was a bit more
advanced you could have that separate so
you could link it down but with the hemp
it's like
it doesn't work that way
right right um but the uh
another thing to think about too is that
it's not a given that
those settings and that data go into
unique block there's no guarantee that
that scheme is being applied to the
unique block that could actually be
embedded
into a different schema and it could be
in mine
did you see what i'm saying no
so the whole root node there could be
inlined in a different structure
you could just take this schema and and
use the the value data in line
um and there you actually may want to
say like oh no i actually want to be
linking out here because
yeah and because it's not a big deal
you're not creating tiny
you know there are tiny blocks at that
point to do the every on every mutation
you were already going to have to
re-link it in
yeah i think i'd do that in dagda
actually
not mistaking
mmm there's so many variables submit to
it's very difficult to say
one thing is objectively worse than
another um but
i think we know that the size of cids
is really costing far coin because
they're explicitly storing everything
and so once you push towards smaller
blocks then the size of cids becomes
a real problem
i mean it's not i don't want to derail
this particular question but
there is this thing that came up in um
was it the meeting we had on thursday
the
no it was a different one maybe it was
last week's meeting
um just about um
because filecoin stores everything
explicitly um it takes up so much space
whereas other blockchains
they're okay with implicit structures
that you can recalculate
on the fly um
and the and this goes back directly to
the nature of ipld itself where we are
explicit every block exists as a thing
um and these and they're very concrete
with regard to cids and
and navigation um and this
it's a more fundamental critique of ipld
that if you remove the space where you
can't be implicit for really simple
constructions and just say look they
exist and you can recalculate them
when whenever you want if you've got all
the data um
it ends up costing us really badly uh
and it's and we're seeing that in file
coin
um there's a bunch of places where you
could imagine these implicit structures
that exist and they're recalculable and
everyone can consensus build them
but because we have all of these blocks
laid out on disk
that's huge anyway that's just the thing
that i think would be worth us pondering
as a collective yes
but also falcon is one of the very few
chains pretty much zone chain can think
of where you can
literally start from a state route and
get
everything else from somewhere else and
be assured that the entire thing is
correct you basically don't have any of
this
stuff that you are fighting in bitcoin
that you know you have
pieces of the chain which are not
actually encoded into any of the hashes
anywhere they're just you know nonsense
and stuff like that
we don't have any of that we have like
literally you have the the tip set key
it describes the entire like
multi-terabyte chain
to the last bit which is but yeah that
that's that's the pro of ipld but
there's no reason you can't
combine the two worlds because the
problem with bitcoin is that they
they've approached it without this lens
of
every block every addressable block is a
thing
um they're devoid of that lens they just
they just have this sense of
we need to be able to content address it
all or hash it all in some form
um whereas i think we're at a we're at a
point where we the way we view things
means that everything can exist but it
doesn't have to exist on disk
uh so there should be there should be a
synthesis of both worlds possible where
you can say these parts
are so trivial that they don't need to
exist on disk
i don't know what they are i mean i
can't point to any examples on the far
coin chains just
and maybe that's maybe that comes from
not acknowledging this and then just
saying well everything has to exist so
therefore we're just going to lay it all
out like this
but if you said well not everything has
to exist there is these implicit pieces
that will exist
if you have everything um
yeah i don't know i don't know where
that's what's going but it is definitely
a big cost
yeah i i believe when we spent a little
bit more time
actually analyzing the chain and you
know internalizing the structures from
uh you know from a general perspective
and what we're doing
we will end up in a situation where it
will be like oh they actually need all
of that because
if you think about it what the chain
actually does is kind of unprecedented
where every single thing ever existing
needs to ping you every 24 hours
like that's not something the chains
normally do
so yeah
like like like take the uh take the
entire system of vector ids it's
literally
uh how to increment primary key you know
an integer
which when you have a chain reorg is
rewritten
so like that the type chain internally
uh
points to things by a simple integer and
when you have a reorg you need to go
back
match every single integer from the
previous state to a stable address
and rewrite them to the new integers
that are now in in in chain because the
state is different and you go
forward with that so even this kind of
stuff they already
um like shaved as much as they can
by basically not using the no
cryptographic stable addresses
and they're like all these really
encodings for for
for all for all the you know partition
populations and stuff like that
so yeah i i'm actually not sure there is
much to
shave without yeah i don't know
we'll actually will know more at this at
this stage he's done who most closely
like had a like birthday view of the
entire thing i guess
i don't know if we want to spend too
much time on this topic it's there's a
big revenue yeah i mean i think we need
to look at delta's my suspicion is
that there are sub trees that
always change together where being
able to collapse links
would be beneficial to us because
they're not
referenced other places um
but i don't have i i think we need
tooling to identify what those places
are so that we can
be better informed about how to
structure things i don't think we just
know that offhand
yeah okay so this back of the hampton
question
okay so linking from the root to the
root
the config to the root let's call it
it's not i'm not a huge fan of it but it
does it does
help us to support far coin you know
with that additional
schema change and it does also just open
the door to
for use cases where people will show up
and say i don't want to store the
configuration with the data
i have it in my code which i think is a
legitimate request which far coin has
and others will have so maybe that's
reason enough
to do that you want to change it
completely or you do
you want to do the union
i don't know but i'd probably be okay
with just the link
it's just it's just my sense of tiny
blocks
having to mutate constantly with massive
cids
again like a lot of times like it's it's
not you're not creating anything extra
it's just you're just moving where the
link is because the other date is
getting inlined above
like a strong opinion but like a union
sounds like
best of both worlds because like what
you actually do is like you
either have one to have it implicit as
far coin
or you want to have it in the block
basically that
and basically with the union those two
cases are served
and if you of course you then could do
this thing with like a tiny block but
you probably won't like why would you
so michael would i can put that's okay
yeah maybe that's right it's just
when we the more we do this the more
we're saying
there's room for even more choice uh you
can do what you like we're you know
we're not we're not showing up with
here's the best way of doing this thing
that's the ideal is like you you don't
need to make these complex choices
because we've made them for you
um because there's so many subtle
interactions here that
for us to just for ipld to be this thing
where you have to understand all of it
to make
informed choices is not a great place to
be
and that's where this that's where all
these these unions are getting us it's
like well you could lay it out in this
way or it could be this way or you can
have a combination of both or maybe this
other thing
i mean look the implementations can make
these decisions
they're going to have same defaults and
they're going to default to whatever the
author thinks is the same thing to do
and then they're just
gonna you know support both on reef it's
perfectly reasonable
yeah i don't i don't think that like we
need to get
this aggressive of making choices in the
specs um
i i do think the implementation should
make some
the idea that was touched upon earlier
of we should write something in the spec
that's terse and clean and is what we
want and then shove in a couple of
alternative schemes as appendices which
can
be any of these implementation choices
or even several of them and just
highlight them for contrast is like as
an implementer you might want to do
this that does this funny union here
because it's really useful in practice
for this compatibility reason
i think having several of those
documents show up is actually
super reasonable
so what's the what's the actual use case
of having
like support like having one schema for
both
like don't you always like if you
implement it always implement either of
them
no we're literally implementing both
like that's literally what we're doing
is we're
planning one that's both so we need the
unified schema at least for that but it
doesn't have to be the main schema it
can just be the bottom
yeah so what i would do in javascript is
i'd have the front end algorithmic piece
and then the back end layout piece but
where we're at with like ipld prime is
that becomes really tricky because the
the layout piece is so intertwined with
the algorithmic piece and i think
i think um daniel you said you could see
a path to doing that
but you would end up having to like sub
packages and it would just get
messy and awkward so if there's if there
is a way to squish them into one
implementation
and then that is kind of ideal
i think it is theoretically possible but
it gets into
can i um i don't know what word to use
can i course the code generate code
generator enough to like let me do that
and i think that's probably rushing it
too much
yeah we don't want to hold them up
forever on this when we can just like
ready
to fight schema
well maybe eric has a good idea of
whether or not the code generator is
smart enough to support that kind of
magic
no long story short no none of us
but yeah i think volcker's question is
also really good
like uh in pursuing this idea of a
unified schema for this particular
implementation
i think we are indexing pretty intensely
on
the costs and the practicalities of
this particular go code generator where
it's relatively high cost
to generate two whole packages with two
different schemas
and as long as we're conscious of that
that's a totally fine trade-off to make
but we probably do want to be really
conscious of a document
because if there was some totally other
implementation of schema logic that
had different costs than this we might
not be
feeling the desire to make these choices
at all that's a good point like the way
that i use schemas in javascript for
validation like i would actually prefer
to just have two schemas and
figure out which one to apply and
validate differently right
yeah that makes sense all right
yeah let's leave this one with me and
maybe i'll come up with a bit at the
bottom of the document that says
his alternatives and this is the way you
can craft a schema that supports
these alternatives cool cool
um cool i know we got some time left rod
do you want to go over the
the slides that you made wait i have one
more like
oh you do sorry sorry sorry yeah no
strings
isn't it no it's
it's actually kind of about strings if i
want to bring it up so now
so i just got today i pull requests on
on dag
on the javascript deck protocol buffers
implementation kind of like the the one
that ipfs is using and
it is actually about
[Music]
the idea is that links only have
bytes which are higher than 31
so basically the control characters so
basically the idea is that in javascript
a link strips of
any bisector control characters of the
link name
and hope this makes if it does make
sense obviously the background is
if you have those characters in and you
have a filename with those characters
what can happen on the output like if
you print it somewhere on the terminal
or something
you get the control characters get could
get in your way of
everything and then i briefly discussed
this with
with with alex whether this should be on
the
deck protocol buffers layer or if it
should be
as it is about printing things out on
the printing out layer basically
i think it makes sense to yeah so peter
wants to say something yeah i i have
opinions
like i i saw this i saw this uh
this issue just now in the in the in the
in the list and i'm like really really
angry about it
because like stripping stuff
it's like the only thing you cannot do
like no other tool does that i actually
have a
an issue from three years ago where i
explored exactly this using control
characters to when you do an
ls to basically like you know write
stuff to the screen
uh that the terminal will interpret and
no other tool actually drops these
characters just and calls them correctly
ls does the right thing tartar the
writing and so on and so forth
and our answer is what we're just going
to drop them i mean like
we need to like either escape the
morning code them or you know or
indicate somehow that there was some
more stuff they are just dropping then
it's like
silly i don't know
okay so i'm i'm we could also like
totally escape them
like so and so or also it's important so
it's really
so it's only so in in this pr on the
javascript side
it's really about like if you get it
returned as a javascript object
so of course like for for creating the
hash and so on of course you
keep the original data around because
well you don't want to have it has
changed
but it's just for if you get back a
javascript object
they strip off those characters um
in what context are they stripping them
off i guess that's what i don't
understand
it's like when you call that string on
it or like
if you so if you if you if you
deserialize the
so you have the serialized the protocol
buffers and you
deserialize it into javascript then what
you see in javascript
and we say dot name to get the name of
the link
it will have those characters stripped
off like just remove
that's what the current pr is doing and
and and you cannot round-trip them right
it's
it's remote like if you try to encode it
back you are out of luck
no you drop a link to this in the chat
please
um they if you if you and
so it's on the it's also in the wait
let me post it on the chat as well it's
in the notes on the agenda items
ah sorry the check is uh where is it
[Music]
so um sorry um
so it's this pr no so what what happens
is
internally it still keeps it around so
it it clear
cleanly round trips it's just
if you access the property then you
don't get it in javascript
so okay so basically if you
have the object and you try to encode it
it will like magically put put this
stuff back but if you
like create a new object with the same
content then you're going to end up
within your
with a new yes yes
so when you're asking for the name
which i guess is sort of the i want to
print out the name
is why you would use that version of it
why don't we give the
base 32 string representation of the sid
which is our standard way that you print
this out and have it as human readable
no it's not no it's not the it's not the
cad it's the
it's the name it's the name of the
link obviously the name of the file so
essentially a map key but in in the
protobuf like
weird way of it this needs to be
wherever it's been consumed i don't see
why we need to bust our data model
i mean this this package is not pure
data model
the the new one is js dag pb is and so i
definitely wouldn't do this there
but for the same reasons i wouldn't want
to do it here either
yeah um so basically so the
answer is we should they should put it
like like on the
layer higher whatever this layer is yeah
like
push it as far out as you can go like
but because this is a problem this is a
problem in general this is not just
about this one field
anytime there's a string then
you care about this
and it's even about like i was saying
like no matter how they push it
yeah so it's so it so it's even about
like like
strings as like like valid duty of eight
strings so we're not talking so just as
a context we're not talking about
arbitrary bytes we're talking about
like it's the value of a strings because
it's the first
characters of s key so just as yeah for
next
okay so okay um
[Music]
ipl team says no yes
well well here's here's one reason i
mean
you're gonna have to craft a response to
this but uh one reason is if they want
the my growth path migrate path to the
next generation of
of the stack this is just not going to
work it's not going to fly there at all
because
we're very strict about data model forms
as object shapes
being able to round trip and not having
any of these special properties there's
no special properties no hidden
properties no
rewriting nothing of that it's just what
you get is what's there
so you've got to deal with all that junk
up up the stack if it's a problem to you
we're not going to be patching these
minor things all the way down yeah
because if you were to if you're here's
another argument
if you're a round trip to this dag pb
data into daxybore for some reason which
you can do
you have the same problem but now it's
in daxybor where you don't have these
defined properties in javascript they
are just properties that come out of the
data
they emerge out of the data unnamed and
unhackable in the code and so
it's a problem for strings in general
they will be there you've got to deal
with them
yeah okay
cool uh yeah so thanks for the input
i will write a response okay i was going
to
ask how are you taking to write the
response so yeah yes awesome thank you
um cool um yeah that's
that's yeah okay there's nothing else
okay so yeah so we still have time so uh
michael you wanted to say something
i was actually just gonna say like maybe
rod can show the slides
that he wrote um
i'd actually like to hear roddick
instead of me
see see how how well that the
transmission has happened
of how these work um
oh uh that would mean
sharing a window and actually pulling
them up on this computer
they're in google
[Music]
yeah they are
sorry i just i did this on my laptop and
not on that here hang on
switch accounts and stuff
i was actually editing the slides while
you were presenting them the other day
michael because i saw
oh really oh it's good to know i need to
copy them into a new presentation soon
so
uh yeah okay okay let's do a quick let's
see if i can do this in seven minutes
probably not but let's see
let's share this
okay you see that screen
so and this is what michael's been
working on with mikola
been hammering it back and forth um lots
of interesting discussion happening
there
um mccullough keeps on surfacing these
interesting ideas
um but the the basic the
at the core of this i think is really
interesting to understand
there's just like this one key piece i
think that if you get that then you can
see what's going on
um so here's the problem right we're
trying to
what we really want is a a way to store
uh a sorted list of entries that's
that's like the holy grail for our data
structures once we have that we've got
we can do so much with that um and maybe
there's
different variations of what we want out
of that so maybe there's different
uh data structures that will do this for
us because we
we have different utility for them
but but really once we have something
that we can
store sorted and we can query in
assorted ways to do range queries on
uh then we can leverage that up to
produce all sorts of
really interesting tooling on top of
this so right now we have a hamptons our
really our general purpose data
structure that serves so many purposes
but
um and it's it's got so many really nice
properties
but it's the lack of sorting means that
it stops short of being a
general-purpose data structure so let's
say we've got uh a list of
things here we want to sort this is this
is the generic problem space
um there these entries
where they've laid out here just as
strings to cids but they could be
anything in fact they could just be
strings
um in a list and you want to store a set
of strings that's it
um but something that you can run a
compare operation on
uh to put them in order and
the there's an additional constraint put
in here to make this work which is that
they should be unique and i think
that's that's an okay property to have
in general because you can work around
that if you have non-unique items in a
number of ways
um so the naive solution is obviously to
make a
just a normal tree where you branch with
a
maximum branching factor and so in here
we've got a
maximum branch factor of four which
splits our data into two and gives us a
root node to point two
um that works except
mutations become a problem because if
you want to do inserts then
you have this shuffling problem so an
insert
um will cr will make an overflow that
then impacts
it can impact the whole tree if you do
it in the right place and so you have to
rewrite every node
uh if you insert something at the
beginning of it um so it's it's a it's a
yucky solution for what we
what we care about and the same thing
with deletes
make spaces and you have to shuffle
everything back up again
just to get the canonical form with the
maximum branching factor so
really not a pleasant solution um
so the the idea that michael and nicola
have been working on
is to treat these entries as if
they were something that you were
putting through a chunking algorithm
um and so uh which
that was the piece for me of just
viewing these things differently viewing
them essentially as a string of of
like a string of bytes that you were you
were scanning through and finding some
way to slice them up
in in a predictable manner so if you
if you scan through this list where do
you find predictable break points that
you can always break uh and turn them
into nodes
and you can do that with chunking and
chunking algorithms and
you can actually do really simple
chunking algorithms so in uh
in this in the form that might so
mccollum had was actually using a proper
chunking
um function so but michael just decided
well we just
we have randomness here um in the form
predictable randomness in the form of
cid
so um if you have a uh
well actually the cid in this instance
uh
you have but you but if you just have a
hash function for the
uh the entry so if it was just a string
and you hash the string
then you could just get an identity from
that hash function
um in some way so just turn that
predictably or
as stably into a a number within a
certain range
uh and so in michael's current uh
iteration just take the last four bytes
you get a 32-bit integer
your range is zero to max that you win
32.
um you can then choose a branching
factor
that will give you a way of slicing
these things
so if you if you divide your index space
up into
your branching factor so let's say your
branching factor is four
you divide max u and 32 by four and then
you've got your
four slots you just say one of those
slots
is where we branch and so if anything
falls below the lowest one
then that's a a break
so so here's let's take these things
hash them
and turn them into these identities and
then you say
uh our threshold is this lower quarter
um of the address space of the
identity space and at that lower quarter
whenever whenever one hits that then
we should break there um and so that
gives us a probability of one in four
of hitting a break which then gives us
that branching factor of
of roughly four of approximately four so
in here we've got
two two of these entries have hit um
the um the threshold
and so we just we chunk so we say okay
we we
when we read along long and long we
found one that met
so we're going to say this is our branch
so
treat these as a close operation for our
our node
and then you end up slicing your set
into a set of nodes based on this
close operation so we've got one close
here and one close here
that's given us three nodes and it seems
a bit sloppy
like these things are not exactly the
right size and that's true
um they flex
in and out around the target size
um just probably probabilistically
because you are seeking that point to
branch on at
a probability of one in four or one in
branch factor
so you're you've got a target rather
than an absolute
but that flexing has become an important
property for our data structures like
the hampt
uses flexing a lot in a few different
forms
but then you apply the same algorithm
all the way up the tree
so you you you hash and index these
the the entries in your next layer as
well
in the next layer they just they're
links to the base layer
where they a starting index so that you
can traverse it later on
but you can run the same hash over that
and do the same thing and so you might
end up also splitting at the
at the next layer as well so if you you
know
get this this threshold below the
threshold then you branch again
and so you end up with multiple layers
and you just keep on running the
algorithm until you get a single root
um and then inserts mean you just run
the algorithm again over the set and
they all because this
they're stable they all produce the same
index the same identity
and you still have the same breaks so
new and then new elements will either
fit in the set or introduce new breaks
so here we've got one
in the top there that's in that's
fitting in that set so the mutation then
is only that one
path along the tree um or the second one
is where we're splitting the
node into two and so again
probabilistically
one in branching factor you will get
a new split introduce new nodes
and then the same thing for removal and
you can either remove elements like this
one here that is
just in the middle of a node or you
could remove a split
in which case you would be joining nodes
so so
these mutations don't always just
they don't always just affect one node
and a path up the tree
they can also affect a neighbor
and um and as you think about the way
that
the tree works you can this effect does
compound as you go up the tree because
you're generating new data here because
the cids change
so these things may shuffle a bit but
you're never in a situation where
um this is likely to propagate across
the whole tree like it's certainly not
at the base layer
but there will be more mutation cost
within the middle of the tree than with
a hamped or other data structure but
it's
it's relatively minimal and also within
the probability
um of the branching factor you define
um so this this is the um
what was this one illustrating this is
uh insertions that may
cost you this is this is a perverse case
so it's not
it's it's you could push this one to the
extreme so where we insert we go from
uh from here do we do it we insert b
and then we um we end up creating a new
sc id here which
uh has a break and then the next one has
a new cid because you've split it
um does that work oh you've inserted a
thing here
and then you've created a new city which
is in the within the threshold so in the
second level we've got these
these three nodes and then you do the
same thing here and then you've got a
break and so you
you end up creating more levels here um
but these over time within probabilities
again they sort of bounce back to the
right shape
um lookup operations are you know this
is just a
b tree you just go to the left
um just go to the the node that is lower
than your index you're seeking so look
up under eight indirect
index sorry operations are cheap
um size operations are expensive
um but um i think i
laid that out here in certain places
yeah if you trust it um yeah uh so
look up insert replace remove
relatively cheap um
and yeah this given a sufficiently
random
hash function nodes will bias towards
the target
branching factor uh they will you know
within that sort of
flex uh and the randomness just
discourages
uh thin trees so um the problem we have
with the amt is you can have these
really thin trees
um because there's no way of
of biasing it towards thickness um
because you are brute force just using
your indexes to
to define the shape of the tree which is
pretty gross
um so so it has has this thickness
property that's similar to a hampt
and the the big deal about this is it's
canonical for any given data
set so even though it looks like they've
got this
this random craziness going on any given
data set
regardless of intermediate removes or
inserts
uh will form a canonical form
with a a canonical root cid uh which is
what we want
um so that's that but there is this one
problem
which is that it's cheap to create
collisions um
because because the branching factor
is just dividing the address space into
you know into that that segment
it's it it doesn't cost you much to to
craft entries that will uh be
below the threshold to create a break or
to not create a break
so in this instance we've you know
somebody could create a bunch of entries
that don't break
and so you end up getting these really
big nodes which can break some systems
we do have limits on node size on uh
that
that we can store in our storage systems
or trend or transport across
uh transport layers so we really do need
to protect against this um
so that's the really outstanding one
there's been a couple of solutions
proposed so far for that
and i think michael and michael are
discussing through
yeah there's there's a bunch of ways to
solve this actually
um it's just that these solutions are
increasingly kind of complex
the less um you control the access
patterns
so like if you if you have like if you
just own the data structure
you can just insert tombstones into the
structure whenever you see an overflow
and then it's becoming part of the
canonical list and so it's it's not
actually out of hash or anything right
um it's like it's still going to
maintain a constant hash but if you
don't like own the structure
or um if you don't have some kind of
consensus mechanism that says
we're all going to apply these changes
at once then you can't really use that
method
if everybody's applying the changes kind
of in a different order and then they
need to come up with it
with a particular structure that becomes
a little bit more difficult
um because you could end up with just
the tombstones in different places
depending on when you pulled it
or um a case that i have in dagdb is
like
the it's an index so the canonical form
is not
actually the data structure it's it's a
view of a different data structure
and so you can't be inserting these
tombstones really it that means that
it's really not the canonical form
anymore
um and so for that you can use like i
have an algorithm for using like a
floating um
fingerprint in order to calculate a
sequence id that you can use
um also like if you if you get to hide
something like if you own the data
structure and other people don't
like manipulate it directly you can just
hide a nonce
for the hashing and then they can't
generate these attacks because they
can't predict what the hashes are going
to be
so it's like really easy to fix if you
if you have any kind of like
agreed upon secret um but yeah
so yeah there's a bunch of different
ways to solve it depending on kind of
what the access patterns are you just
it takes some some work to figure out
which one is going to work best
all right we are running out of time we
are overtime
so yeah so thanks for the presentation
like that's that's interesting
um cool yeah so then uh yes
that's oh god then then i'll see
everyone next week so goodbye everyone